# writing

## My writing journey

Before I ever opened a terminal or even knew what 'Python' was, I spent over half of a decade as a devout writer. In High School I began creative writing: short fiction, poetry, and memoirs, as well as journaling on a daily basis. Over the years I joined the school newspaper, wrote a novella, assembled a chapbook of poetry, and designed & doled out brochures about social causes I cared about. After I graduated, I went on a 6 month journey where I traveled across the U.S. alone in my van, in which the core motivation was (1) finding material to write about and (2) writing. I published weekly blog posts narrating my travels, then composed a 60,000 word memoir about the entire expedition. When I returned home I began school at Auraria Campus in Denver enrolled as an English Major. I read scholarly articles and wrote essays in my free time, and soon after landed myself a job at the CU Denver Writing Center. Here, I learned all about rhetoric and argumentation, writing across genres, rhetorical and stylistic grammar, second language acquisition, and many linguistic foundations.

When I eventually took up coding, I was enamored: writing programs synthesized my writing passion with my love for math, the scientific method, and problem solving; developing software was essentially an interactive writing process.

Although a strong background in writing is by no means a requirement for a programmer or data scientist, it does offer a cutting edge. Primarily, my experiences with writing gave me a strong linguistic aptitude which allowed me to grasp syntax as well as a write organized, coherent programs. Secondly, I soon found that writing *is* strongly interwoven with computer programming. Sharing software required the ability to translate concepts into natural language and to write clear and detailed instructions (think GitHub README). Further, a data scientist is often required to summarize findings in layman's terms--many times in a written report. These skills have come naturally to me because of my background in writing.
